feat: adding the blog post for the conference (#101)
uk-x-gov-software-community/uk-x-gov-software-community.github.io: blog/2025/01/conference.md

---
layout: page.njk
title: Our first in-person Cross Government Software Engineering Conference 2025 
tags: post
categories: ["conference", "2025", "gds"]
date: 2025-01-29
excerpt: "A review of the first In-Person Cross Government Software Engineering Conference 2025"
author: Shaun Hare
---

The Cross Government Software Engineering Conference, held on January 29, 2025, in GDS Whitechapel building in London, was a fantastic gathering of professionals dedicated to the advancement of software development within the public sector.  

> It took a lot of organising by the Cross Government Software Engineering Community, but this event was a powerful reminder of the value of collaboration, knowledge sharing, and innovation in government technology. Pulling off an event of this scale was no small feat, and immense credit goes to the organising committee, particularly hard work by Alex Coleman Active Travel England and Claudia Chiurlia GDS’s Engineering Excellence team, and the conference helpers who ensured everything ran smoothly. The success of the conference demonstrated a strong demand for continued engagement and collaboration within the community. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It took a lot of organising by the Cross Government Software Engineering Community, but this event was a powerful reminder of the value of collaboration, knowledge sharing, and innovation in government technology. Pulling off an event of this scale was no small feat, and immense credit goes to the organising committee, particularly hard work by Alex Coleman (Active Travel England) and Claudia Chiurlia (GDS’s Engineering Excellence team), and the conference helpers who ensured everything ran smoothly. The success of the conference demonstrated a strong demand for continued engagement and collaboration within the community. 
```

<img src="/assets/images/conference-2025/posters.jpg"
     alt="Posters at Cross Government Software Engineering Conference"
     style="margin:10px 10%; width:60%; hieght:auto; border:12px solid #ccc;" />

### Keynote Highlights

> The conference kicked off with an inspiring keynote from Asim Hussain of the Green Software Foundation. His talk focused on sustainable software practices, highlighting the need for consistent measurement of environmentally responsible development approaches and cloud use. This keynote, reminding attendees of their responsibility to consider sustainability in their software engineering efforts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The conference kicked off with an inspiring keynote from Asim Hussain of the Green Software Foundation. His talk focused on sustainable software practices, highlighting the need for consistent measurement of environmentally responsible development approaches and cloud use. This keynote reminded attendees of their responsibility to consider sustainability in their software engineering efforts.
```

Later in the afternoon, Terence Eden captivated and inspired the audience with lessons from open-sourcing the UK's COVID-19 tracing app. His story of the time showed all sides to open collaboration in government projects, emphasising how these principles (embraced in the service standard) can lead to better public trust and more robust software solutions and better security.
<p style="clear:both;"></p>
<img src="/assets/images/conference-2025/teden.jpg"
     alt="Terence Eden standing near banner at the Cross Government Software Engineering Conference"
     style="float:left; width:42%; height:auto; border:12px solid #ccc; margin:1em;" />
<img src="/assets/images/conference-2025/asim.jpg"
     alt="Asim Hussain standing near banner at the Cross Government Software Engineering Conference"
     style="float:left; width:42%; height:auto;  border:12px solid #ccc; margin:1em;" />
<p style="clear:both;"></p>

### Engaging Lightning Talks

> One of the standout features of the conference came from the community members themselves , this was the series of lightning talks, where speakers from various government departments delivered the following topics :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the standout features of the conference came from the community members themselves, this was the series of lightning talks, where speakers from various government departments delivered the following topics:
```

- Transforming API Management: From Vendor Lock-in to Open Source by Abhi Markan

- So, You're Interested in Green Software - Now What? by Rachael Robinson

- Creative Technology in Government by Brendan Arnold

- Data Engineering is a Software Discipline by Michal Poreba

- We Ran a Hackathon: Here's How to Make It Work by Hettie Street and Stephanie De Jong

### **Great Sessions**

Beyond the lightning talks, the conference provided in-depth sessions that explored critical government software initiatives. Topics included:

- Transforming How We Implement the Rules of Legal Aid by Bex Appleyard

- GOV.UK One Login: What, Why and How by Phil Fordham & Paul Dougan

- Applying AI to the Legislative Process by Liam Wilkinson

- Evolving GOV.UK Chat from Prototype to Production AI System by Alessia Tosi, Kevin Dew, and Rich Eveson

> These sessions provided a service view, from the teams themselves a real deep look at the innovative work happening across government departments, offering attendees practical takeaways to improve their own projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These sessions provided an a in-depth look at the innovative work teams are doing across government departments, offering attendees practical takeaways to improve their own projects.
```

### Building Connections and Community

> As is always a valuable aspect of the conference being the opportunity to network. With attendees from 36 different departments and agencies, the event hopefully will create new connections between people who might otherwise not meet. There seemed to be people lost in discussions, sharing challenges, and exchanging best practices, the objectives of a cross-government software engineering community were surely met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The conference also provided valuable time for attendees to network and chat. With attendees from 36 different departments and agencies, the event hopefully created new connections between people who might otherwise not meet. At lunch there seemed to be people lost in discussions, sharing challenges, and exchanging best practices, the objectives of a cross-government software engineering community were surely met.
```
